hi everyone I'm going to show you today
sewing with sticky back cameras so this
is part of my product line with Ranger
and it's it's self-adhesive canvas that
obviously sticky on the back but you can
paint on it you can sew it you can print
on it and we're going to be doing a
transfer today and creating this
necklace which was inspired by April
Meeker of second sister studios so go
check out her store on etsy.com a couple
of the other things that you can sew
with sticky back canvas I did this
t-shirt here which is really cute and
yes you can paint on it with the
Claudine Thomas studio paints you can
run it through the washing machine you
have to sew the sticky back cam that's
on to be able to run it through the
washing machine and just turn it inside
out wash it in a delicate bag and then
let it air dry also this my friend Ellen
Hudson made is a little stitched pillow
made out of sticky back canvas and then
I made this purse entirely out of sticky
back canvas the strap is double-sided
sticky back extra pieces that I had the
front the only thing that's not sticky
back is the lining I actually took a
class to learn how to do this I am NOT a
sower but I took a class and I learned
how to make it really excited that I was
able to pull it off and you can sew with
sticky back canvas so let's get started
making this necklace and this was an
experiment for me too so you're gonna be
along for my sewing adventure create
this necklace we're going to be using
studio sticky back canvas and a piece of
Cosmo Cricut
scrapbook paper the first step is to cut
out these large flowers from the
scrapbook paper just cut little circles
cut out your favorite one then we're
going to take a piece of sticky back
canvas and we're going to go on the back
of the stick
at canvas so I'm going to peel off the
backing and just begin layering the
flowers face down directly into the
sticky side of the sticky back canvas I
fill this up with all my flowers and
then you want to burnish with some
something to burnish to get that paper
really stuck down there nicely I'm just
going to use the Ranger craft scraper
you can see mine is all full paint but
that doesn't matter it still does the
job
once you've burnished you're going to
spray them down with water and really
get them wet don't be afraid you could
even dump it in the sink if you want but
the the little mini mister is nice cuz
you could do it in front of the TV and
then I'm just going to start rolling the
paper off very gently so you could see
there it's starting to reveal so I would
continue to do all the rest of these and
then it would look something like this
where I'm almost done and what I do when
I'm almost done is I take a paper towel
and I brush it around and it removes
those last little bit of fuzzies so now
I finish the transfer and what I'm going
to do is cut out these flowers and you
can see here where parts of the transfer
are lighter than others but that's what
I really like about this process it
makes it look very different from the
original scrapbook paper so just go
ahead and cut out all the flowers so now
I need to decide what fabrics I'm going
to lay our fabrics on the back and I
need to decide what I think goes best
this gingham and I don't really like
that one
and then I've got cream with red polka
dots
which I really do kind of like so what
I'm going to do is cut out the rest of
the flowers and then I'm going to cut
circles that are slightly larger than
the flowers out of the back backing
fabric now that I've got all my pieces
cut out and chosen my flowers I actually
did change the fabric I found this a
peach fabric which I think goes really
nicely I cut out the circles just a
little bit bigger than the flowers and
purposely frayed the edges
I just want to fray the edges a little
bit on the sticky back canvas flowers to
rough them up a little bit so I'm just
going to take a little bit of sandpaper
and go around all the edges just to
rough them up a little bit more and add
a little bit of texture and interest so
for the next part we're going to be
sewing on the sewing machine now I am no
expert sower so maybe I have a little
bit of unorthodox methods first what I
did was I sewed just with a straight
line using orange thread the back
circles of fabric together so this is
going to form the backing of our
necklace now what I'm going to do is
I've got black thread loaded in my
machine and I'm going to take the
flowers and I'm gonna sew through two
layers of sticky back I've got two
little flowers on here that I'm going to
just sew a little X
and there you could see very rudimentary
stitching in my piece but I'm going to
go ahead and fill this all up with flour
so here's the finished necklace all sewn
together with the black stitches and I
could if I wanted to maybe add buttons
to the center or other embellishments
but I felt like it looked pretty good
this way and then to add the closure
since I'm not a jeweler what I did was
cannibalize a necklace that I got at the
craft store and I just cut it in half
and sewed each half to each end and then
that way it will close on its own and
it's ready to go so I hope that you
enjoyed creating this necklace and
experimenting with me with sewing with
sticky back canvas